# My 41189 Reflective Portfolio
## Week 8
### What have I learnt this week?
This week I learnt about the models of strategy and cooperation: Colonel Blotto Game and the Prisoner’s Dilemma, which are both part of game theory. 

### What do I 'now know' that I did not before?
This week’s learning’s taught me a lot about these 2 games. The Colonel Blotto Model is a type of game that predicts winners and losers based on their designations of limited resources across various fronts. Each front is won by the player with the most resources at that front and the overall winner of the game is the player who wins the most fronts. 
-	Colonel Blotto's original application occurred on the battlefield
-	However, the game of Colonel Blotto fell out of trend when air war became prominent by the First World War
-	However the Colonel Blotto game is now seeing a re-emergence, due to its application in numerous political, social and other competitive situations.

It seems like a simple game from the outside, but it leads to very complicated outcomes.  
Reasons for applying Blotto: 
- To comprehend how an underdog wins / explains empirical patterns 
- Calculate/ estimate how much quantity of a resource should be utilised and how to allocate it 
- Estimate hidden parameters / analysing which dimensions contribute to overall wins and capitalizing on them

Now, The Prisoner's Dilemma gets the essence of the tension between doing what is good for the individual and what is good for everyone. Game theorists wanted to involve it more, as they wanted a simulation to the real world. In everyday life, from business to politics to diplomacy, selfish actors — “egoists,” in game-theory language — compete not just once but often. They get to interact with each other and act on that knowledge. The most favourable strategy is to not to say anything incriminating. However, neither is aware of the other's strategy and who will confess for certain, and it’ll probably end up with both likely confess and be incarcerated for 5 years in jail. The Nash equilibrium says that in a prisoner's dilemma, both players will make the move that is best for them individually but worse for them holistically. The expression “tit for tat” has been determined to be the perfect strategy for optimizing a prisoner's dilemma. Tit for tat was invented by Anatol Rapoport, who hence developed a strategy in which each participant in an iterated prisoner's dilemma follows a course of action consistent with his opponent's previous turn. For example, if they are provoked, a player subsequently responds with retaliation; if unprovoked, the player goes along with it.

### What insights have I gained?
The insights I gained from this week’s content are that in real life you want to stay out of zero sum games because you have to work very hard to defeat the opposition. The other person is also working very hard to win the single payoff = super competitive. Blotto literally demonstrates that having more resources does not guarantee victory, as it is in the real world. It is instead the way in which players allocate their resources is much more important in determining the winner than how many resources each player has, so it is in life. Also, never underestimate the underdog, for they can become the dark horse that triumphs in the end. And we are all caught up in the Prisoner’s Dilemma, as we struggle to find a way to care for ourselves, as well as others. Selfishness vs. selflessness. It is always possible to be both all the time?

### What are (my/the) perceived strengths and weaknesses that I have observed?
For me, my perceived strengths are that I love playing analog (board and card) games, even though I am not always good at them i.e. tic-tac-toe, snakes and ladders, chess, Uno, gin rummy etc. They all relate to Colonel Blotto and the Prisoner’s Dilemma in a few ways. The aforementioned games are zero sum, as they do have winners and losers. Even though some of these games involve all chance and no skill, they teach us important life skills like sequencing, patterns, counting, and color and shape identification. This isn’t just reasonable speculation; games that include a linear trail of numbers have been proven to boost our numerical understanding. Just as valuable is the way analog games us about the importance of following directions, taking turns, and socializing with others — all essential skills for succeeding in school and life. We also learn how to lose gracefully. There are basically three kinds of games: those that are based purely on skill/strategy; those that are based entirely on chance; and those that involve both. In my experience, the latter are the most fun. The element of chance keeps things interesting, and offers lesser skilled players the hope, however small, that they might still be able to claim victory. The biggest draw of luck+skill games, however, runs even deeper, and may actually be subconscious: the way they parallel the dynamics of real life. In a card game like gin rummy, you don’t choose the hand of cards you begin with, and you don’t know what you’re going to turn over from round to round. The players start out on unequal levels, you’re subject to the currents of chance, and you have to find the best way to navigate through and come out on top. It’s no wonder we borrow from the language of games to describe situations where “you have to make the most of the cards you are dealt.” In both life and games, sometimes things fall in your favour, and sometimes they fall against you. Analog games are thus a great reminder that some things are in the hands of Lady Fortuna, and all you can do is concentrate on the one thing within your control: hatching a strategy for doing the best with what you got, which is just how Colonel Blotto operates as well. 

And just like Colonel Blotto, One of the theories as to the earliest origins of board games traces their start to combat commanders demonstrating a plan for an impending battle to their gang of warriors. They might have drawn an outline of the battlefield on the ground, and placed stones where the men were to go, and where the enemy was expected to be. These would have been interesting for the men to study, and perhaps play around with after the battle was over. From there it would have been a short leap to setting up the different sides for fun. Whether or not that’s exactly how it happened, anthropologists agree that many classic and modern games are modelled on the dynamics of war — two or more sides, squaring off, trying to win the race, rack up points, and/or take another’s territory. Now, when it comes to the Prisoner’s Dilemma, while games that involve chance keep you on your toes, games like chess or checkers that are based almost entirely on skill can be grounding. As opposed to mirroring the somewhat chaotic nature of real life, the rules of the game are set, and everything is within the player’s control, except what their opponent will do-also similar to what goes on in Colonel Blotto. 

### What were the challenges I encountered/observed and how well (did I/my team) handle them?
The challenges me and my team observed when we were working on our pre-submission due this week, is that both the Colonel Blotto game and the Prisoner’s Dilemma, are heavily involved in our assignment of modelling political election systems. In US elections, Colonel Blotto is used here: To become president you don’t need to win the most votes, it is the most states that count. So where do they designate their troops, of money, time, helpers, etc., to win the most states? For instance, California is a blue state-meaning that it’s staunchly Democratic and so neither party spends much time or money there, since they know they have CA’s backing already. What they would do instead, is spend time and money in other states located in the Midwest and New England, and some parts of the South. In political campaigns, Prisoner’s Dilemma is employed here: the collaboration is running purely positive ads in support of a party, and defection is running negative ads on another party. If both are positive, they’d look like saints. But then one of them decides to publish negative content about the other to get an advantage, the other party then gets revenge, then they go back to 50-50 chance of winning, but now they both look ruined. 

### What would I do better next time and with what anticipated results?
What I would do better next time is to analyse games, and really learn from what they have to teach.

### What theory proved to be useful and why? What have I learnt from this?
The theory I feel that has proved to be most useful for this week is Game theory, which is a theoretical framework for developing social situations among competing players. In some aspects, game theory is the science of strategy, or the optimal decision-making of independent and competing actors in a strategic area. The creators of game theory were mathematician John von Neumann and economist Oskar Morgenstern in the 1940s. Mathematician John Nash is regarded as giving the first important extension of the von Neumann and Morgenstern work. Utilising game theory, real-world scenarios for such situations like competitive pricing and product releases etc, can be displayed and their success outcomes predicted. Scenarios include the prisoner's dilemma and the dictator game for instances. 

The focus of game theory is the game itself, which serves as a model of an interactive situation among rational players. The key to game theory is that one player's payoff, hinges on the strategy being put into position by the other player. The game looks at the players' identities, preferences, and available strategies and how these strategies will affect the outcome. Depending on the model, various other requirements or assumptions may be necessary. Game theory has numerous usages, including psychology, evolutionary biology, war, politics, economics, and business. According to game theory, the actions and choices of all the participants affect the outcome of each, so it is in the game of life. The biggest issue with game theory is that, like most other economic models, it relies on the assumption that people are rational actors that are self-interested and utility-maximizing, which is probably true for most people, but certainly not everyone and anyone. Of course, we are social beings who do work with each other and do care about social welfare, much to our detriment at times. Game theory cannot look into the fact that in some situations we could and couldn’t fall into Nash equilibrium, depending on the social context and the participants playing in the game.  

Nash Equilibrium means that when an outcome is at once achieved, this means that no player can increase their payoff by changing decisions unilaterally. This is also the “no regrets," in the sense that once a decision is made, the player will have no regrets concerning decisions, through taking into account their consequences. When the Nash Equilibrium is reached, it cannot really be changed. Normally, there can be more than 1 game equilibrium. But, this usually happens in games with more complex elements than the standard two choices by 2 players. In simultaneous games that are repeated over time, one of these multiple equilibria is gotten to after some trial and error. This particular situation of different choices overtime before reaching equilibrium is the most often played out in the business world when 2 businesses are determining prices for highly comparable products like carbonated beverages. 
